now when the people saw that Moses
delayed coming down from the mountain
the people gathered together to Aaron
and said to him come make us gods that
shall go before us for as for this Moses
the man who brought us up out of the
land of Egypt we do not know what has
become of him and Aaron said to them
break off the golden earrings which are
in the ears of your wives your sons and
your daughters and bring them to me
so all the people broke off the golden
earrings which were in their ears and
brought them to Aaron and he received
the girl from their hand and he
fashioned it with an engraving tool and
made a molded calf then they said this
is your God of Israel that brought you
out of the land of Egypt
so when Aaron saw it he built an altar
before it and Aaron made a proclamation
tomorrow is a feast to the Lord when
they rose early on the next day offered
burnt offerings and brought peace
offerings and the people sat down to eat
and drink and Rosa to play
[Music]
and the Lord said to Moses go get done
for your people whom you brought out of
the land of Egypt have corrupted
themselves they have turned aside
quickly out of the way which I commanded
they have made themselves a molded calf
and worshiped it and sacrificed to it
and said this is your God of Israel that
brought you out of the land of Egypt I
have seen this people and indeed it is a
stiff-necked people now therefore let me
alone that my wrath may burnhardt
against them and I may consume them and
I will make of you a great nation and
Moses pleaded with the Lord his God Lord
why does your wrath burn the heart
against your people whom you have
brought out of the land of Egypt with
great power and with a mighty
why should the Egyptians speak and say
he brought them out to harm them to kill
them in the mountains and to consume
them from the face of the earth turn
from your fierce wrath and relent from
this harm to your people remember
Abraham Isaac and Israel your servants
to whom you swore by your own self and
said them I will multiply your
descendants as the stars of heaven and
all this land that I have spoken of I
give to your descendants and they shall
inherit it forever
so the Lord relented from the harm which
he said he would do to his people and
Moses turned and went down from the
mountain and the two tablets of the
testimony were in his hand the tablets
were written on both sides of the one
side and on the other they were written
and our tablets were the work of God and
the writing was the writing of God
engraved on the tablets and when Joshua
heard the noise of the people as they
shouted he said to Moses there was a
noise of war in a camp it is love the
noise of the shower victory nor the
noise of the cry of defeat but the sound
of singing here
[Music]
so it was as soon as he came near the
camp that he saw the calf and the
dancing so Moses anger became hot and he
cast the tablets out of his hands
and broke them at the foot of the
mountain
then he took the cuff which they had
made burned it in the fire and ground it
to powder
he scattered it on the water and made
the children of Israel drink
Moses said to Aaron what did this do
that you have brought so great a sin
upon them do not let the anger of my
Lord become hot you know the people that
they are set on evil for they said to me
make us gods that shall go before us
that's for this Moses the man who
brought us out of the land of Egypt we
do not know what has become of him and I
said to them whoever has any gold let
them break it off so they gave it to me
and I cast it into the fire and this
calf came out now when Moses saw that
the people who were unrestrained
for Aaron had not restrained them to
their shame among their enemies then
Moses stood in the entrance of the camp
and said whoever is on the Lord's side
come to me and all the sons of Levi
gathered themselves together to him he
said to them thus says the Lord God of
Israel let every man put his sword on
his side and go in and out from entrance
to entrance throughout the camp
and let every man kill his brother every
man his companion and every man his
neighbor
so the sons of Levi did according to the
word of Moses about 3,000 men of the
people fell that day
[Applause]
[Music]
then Moses said consecrate yourselves
today that he may bestow on you a
blessing this day for every man as
opposed his son and his brother
now it came to pass on the next day that
Moses said to the people you have
committed a great sin
so now I will go up to the Lord perhaps
I can make atonement for your sin then
Moses returned to the Lord and said oh
these people have committed a great sin
and have made for themselves a God of
gold
yet now if you will forgive their sin
[Music]
but if not I pray block me out of your
book which you have written
whoever has sinned against me I will
blot him out of my book now therefore go
lead the people to the place of which I
have spoken to you behold my angel shall
go before you nevertheless in the day
when I visit for punishment I will visit
punishment upon them for their sin so
[Music]
the Lord plagued the people because of
what they did with a calf which Aaron
made
you